# Anime Recommender Engine
My goal for this project is to make several different recommender engines for anime.  The reason is anime has a huge range of genre and the streaming services in the U.S. view it as just one genre, which does a huge inservice to the viewers.
I'm using 2 different datasets in the project: the first containing over 14,000 anime titles with genres, a unique ID, anime types, and various other information.  The second contains over 7 million ratings on the anime mentioned in the first dataset with the anime ID being the overlaying piece of information.
The recommender engines I will make from this data are a genre simularity engine (using k-NN), a popularity engine (baseline), and 2 collabrative filtering engines (1 with the Pearson correlation coeficient and 1 with cosine simularity).
After importing the python packages I needed to do the job and importing the 2 csv files I started cleaning the first dataset.  First I removed any anime that didn't have any genres in the genre column, then I parsed out the genre column by getting dummy variables so that each genre (Action, Horror, Sports, ect.) was represented by its own column, and removed any anime that belonged to the Hentai (XXX) genre.  I also went through the anime types removing music specials, OVA's, and ONA's since licensing these types are too pricy for companies to bring to the states and never show up on streaming services in this point of time.  Cleaning the data resulted in over 12,000 tites remaining.
I then merged the two datasets together using the anime ID columns found in both datasets, which dropped the anime titles I removed in the first phase of my cleaning.
I wanted to make a simple popularity engine to use as a baseline against my colabrative engines, however there was an issue.  The anime being deemed popular were anime having only 1 user rate them each giving them a perfect 10.  I felt this was producing a false representation.  I noticed many of the anime rated the most had around 200,000 votes, so I decided to drop any anime which recieved less than 2000 votes.  This dropped the number of my ratings from over 7 million to just under 6 million ratings.  Afterwards I generated a list of popular anime and recieved something I felt was a better representation.  I also generated models with precission and accuracy scores.
Next I generated collabrative filtering engines and compared their precision and accuracy scores against each other and my popularity engine.  The engine using cosine simularity ended up having much higher scores than the other two, so I used this as my preferred model.  I then asked 3 anime fans to give me 10 different animes with how they would rate them.  I added these 3 people to my dataset and gave them individual recommendations.  Each of them enjoyed or are planning to watch atleast 7/10 recommended titles, which I felt was very successful.
Lastly I produced a genre simularity engine using k-NN and the results it gave me for all the titles I ran through it produced sequal seasons and other anime I felt were very simular.
In the future I plan on making a hybrid engine with the colabrative and genre simularity engines.